OSDOCS-3798 - Removing OCM CLI references and adding proxy content for OSD and ROSA (#47385)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/configuring-a-proxy-after-installation-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/configuring-cluster-wide-proxy.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-a-proxy-after-installation-cli_{context}"]
= Configuring a proxy after installation using the CLI

You can use the {product-title} (ROSA) CLI (`rosa`) to add a cluster-wide proxy configuration to an existing ROSA cluster in a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

You can also use `rosa` to update an existing cluster-wide proxy configuration. For example, you might need to update the network address for the proxy or replace the additional trust bundle if any of the certificate authorities for the proxy expire.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The cluster applies the proxy configuration to the control plane and compute nodes. While applying the configuration, each cluster node is temporarily placed in an unschedulable state and drained of its workloads. Each node is restarted as part of the process.
====

.Prerequisites

> * You have installed and configured the latest ROSA (`rosa`) and OpenShift (`oc`) CLIs on your installation host.

Reviewer: is installing `oc` still a prerequisite for ROSA?

Author: This is a prerequisite for the verification step in this procedure, unless we update that step to use the `rosa` CLI instead. I will update this depending on how that develops.

* You have a ROSA cluster that is deployed in a VPC.

.Procedure

* Edit the cluster configuration to add or update the cluster-wide proxy details:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit cluster \
 --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME \
 --additional-trust-bundle-file $CA_BUNDLE_FILE \
 --http-proxy $HTTP_PROXY \
 --https-proxy $HTTPS_PROXY

> ----

Reviewer 2: Now it allows to set --no-proxy filed to cluster via rosa cli but doesn't allow on UI.

Author: @yingzhanredhat thank you for your review and for highlighting this. Can you please expand on this topic? What explicitly needs to change in this PR in relation to this? Thanks!

Author: On review, I understand that what is required is to add the `--no-proxy` option to this CLI-based code block for ROSA. I can also add that in the similar code-block in `modules/configuring-a-proxy-during-installation-cli.adoc`. I will update this thread after I have tested and added that.

Author: @yingzhanredhat following on from a discussion within our team, I have created https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-3864 to track the requirement for the `--no-proxy` argument outside of this PR.

I will add that option as a separate exercise after this PR (47385) is merged, because it does not relate to the removal or replacement of the OCM CLI content that we are addressing here.

+

> While the `additional-trust-bundle-file`, `http-proxy`, and `https-proxy` arguments are optional, if you set a `additional-trust-bundle-file` without either an `http-proxy` or `https-proxy` argument, then the additional trust bundle will still be used for verifying cluster system egress traffic.

Author: This is good advice, thank you. Resolved.

> While the `additional-trust-bundle-file`, `http-proxy`, and `https-proxy` arguments are optional, if you set a `additional-trust-bundle-file` without either an `http-proxy` or `https-proxy` argument, then the additional trust bundle will still be used for verifying cluster system egress traffic.

Reviewer 2: @mrbarge would you help to confirm if  this sentence makes sense

Reviewer 3: This sentence has bugged me a bit, it's a little confusing in the point it's trying to make.

Breaking it up might make it read a bit better.

```suggestion
The `additional-trust-bundle-file` argument can be supplied without needing an accompanying `http-proxy` or `https-proxy` argument. In that scenario, it will still be added to the system's trust store and be used for verifying cluster system egress traffic.
```

Author: Thank you both for highlighting this.

A similar suggestion about breaking this sentence up was made by @michaelryanpeter in https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/47385#discussion_r924716223. I resolved that in my local feature branch and forgot to push the changes to my fork.

On further review, I noticed that this section is similar to the code block seen in modules/configuring-a-proxy-during-installation-cli.adoc (both sections are being moved in this PR, not created from scratch. That other section provides detailed call outs that are more explicit. I have updated the code block in this module (modules/configuring-a-proxy-after-installation-cli.adoc) so that it also uses call outs and explicitly describes each of the relevant points. I have also included some of the details in @mrbarge's suggestion in the call outs. Additionally, I made sure that the code block and call out in both modules are consistent in their use of variables, etc.

Please let me know if the update looks good or if you have further feedback. Thanks!

+
[NOTE]
====
You should not attempt to change the proxy or additional trust bundle configuration on the cluster directly. These changes must be applied by using the ROSA CLI (`rosa`) or {cluster-manager-first}. Any changes that are made directly to the cluster will be reverted automatically.
====

.Verification

> . List the status of the machine config pools and verify that they are updated:

Reviewer: hmm, i see now the dependency on `oc` - nevermind the comment about it being a prerequisite 😊

> . List the status of the machine config pools and verify that they are updated:

Author: > is there a way to do these verification with the UI (or via `rosa`)?
> 
> and if not, is that planned for the future?

My preference would be for this verification step to be CLI based, because the module relates to using the CLI specifically.

@vkareh and @pvasant hi! Can you please advise if this verification step can be done by using the `rosa` CLI instead of `oc`? Thanks!

> . List the status of the machine config pools and verify that they are updated:

Reviewer 4: No, we don't have a way of doing this from our API (or CLIs). You will need `oc` for this.

> . List the status of the machine config pools and verify that they are updated:

Author: Thank you for confirming that. I will subsequently keep the verification `oc` steps and prerequisite.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machineconfigpools
----
+

> .Example Output

Author: Good catch! Thank you. Resolved.

[source,terminal]
----
NAME     CONFIG                                             UPDATED   UPDATING   DEGRADED   MACHINECOUNT   READYMACHINECOUNT   UPDATEDMACHINECOUNT   DEGRADEDMACHINECOUNT   AGE
master   rendered-master-d9a03f612a432095dcde6dcf44597d90   True      False      False      3              3                   3                     0                      31h
worker   rendered-worker-f6827a4efe21e155c25c21b43c46f65e   True      False      False      6              6                   6                     0                      31h
----

. Display the proxy configuration for your cluster and verify that the details are as expected:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get proxy cluster -o yaml
----
+

> .Example Output

Author: Resolved.
